In the previous video, we already add one
router to our topology, so now we have 3 router.
Next in this video, we are going to configure
static routing so pc 3 will able to communicate
with pc 1 and pc 2.
Let’s just start.
Let’s start with pc 1, let’s say pc1 want
to communicate with pc 3, so the source is
192.168.1.10, and the destination is 192.168.3.10,
so pc 1 will ask router 1,
"hey router 1 do you know where is 192.168.3.10?" then router 1 will check it in the routing table,
and here we can see that router 1 don’t know about 192.168.3.10
yet.
So pc 1 can not communicate with pc 3.
Next, let’s try from pc 2.
Let’s say pc 2 want to communicate with pc 3,
so the source is 192.168.2.10, and the destination
is 192.168.3.10, pc 2 will ask router 2, "hey
router 2 do you know where is 192.168.3.10?"
then router 2 will check the routing table,
and here we can see that router 2 don’t know
about 192.168.3.10 yet.
So pc 2 also can not communicate with pc 3.
The summary is pc 1 and pc 2 can not communicate
with pc 3 yet, so we need to configure static routing.
Let’s start from router 1.
If we see in the topology, we have total 5
network, which is 192.168.1.0/24, 10.10.10.0/24,
10.20.20.0/24, 192.168.2.0/24, and 192.168.3.0/24.
So here we have 1 2 3 4 5.
We have 5 different network.
So each router must have 5 network in their
routing table.
Here router 1 still have 3, router 1 know about
10.10.10.0/24, 192.168.1.0/24 and 192.168.2.0/24,
router 1 don’t know about 10.20.20.0/24 and
192.168.3.0/24 yet.
So we need to add 2 static routing in router 1.
Let’s start.
Enable, configure terminal, let’s add static
routing to 10.20.20.0 first, so ip route 10.20.20.0
255.255.255.0, the next hop will be router 2,
which is 10.10.10.2.
Next, let’s add static routing to 192.168.3.0/24,
so ip route 192.168.3.0 255.255.255.0,
and then the next hop is still router 2.
Which is 10.10.10.2
Okay now we have done in router 1.
Let’s write it, actually this is optional,
but for learning, I think this is important
to write the routing table here.
Okay next let’s configure on router 2.
Router 2 should have 5 network in the routing
table, here we can see that router 2 already
have 4 network, so we just need to add one
more network to routing table,
which is 192.168.3.0/24, so
ip route 192.168.3.0 255.255.255.0
and the next hop is router 3, which is 10.20.20.2.
Let’s verify it, do show ip route, okay
here we can see that now router 2 know about
192.168.3.0/24, the next hop is 10.20.20.2.
Let’s also write the routing table here.
Once again, this is optional.
Okay now router 2 already have 5 network in
the routing table, last, let’s configure
on router3.
Here we can see that router3 only have 2 network,
which is 10.20.20.0/24 and 192.168.3.0/24,
so we need to add 3 static routing, which
is 192.168.2.0/24, 10.10.10.0/24, and 192.168.1.0/24.
Let’s start, enable, configure terminal,
let’s add routing to pc 2, so ip route 192.168.2.0
255.255.255.0, the next hop is router 2, which
is 10.20.20.1.
Next let’s add static routing to 10.10.10.0/24,
so ip route 10.10.10.0 255.255.255.0
and the next hop is also router 2, which is 10.20.20.1.
Last, let’s add static routing to pc 1, so
ip route 192.168.1.0 255.255.255.0
and the next hop is still 10.20.20.1.
Okay now we have done in router 3, let’s
verify it, do show ip route.
Here we can see that we have 2 connected routing,
and 3 static routig.
Now we have done configuring static routing
on all router.
Let’s try ping between all pc. Let’s try
from pc 2 to pc 3 first, ping 192.168.30.10,
okay here we can see that the result is success.
Next let’s try from pc 1 to pc 3, ping 192.168.3.10,
okay here the result is also success.
Okay, I hope you understand about static routing.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to learn about dynamic routing.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.